Now let's take a look at the process for texturing an object by exploiting the U.V. map to paint program
like Photoshop or Gamp or Krita and how we might use that to then lay down the texture and layer multiple
textures over the U.V. map.
So I'm going to tab into edit mode here for the couch and keep in mind that this is only for the fabric
part of the couch not the wood part.
I've separated that out into its own object.
So I've tabbed into Edit Mode hit a to select everything and I get to come over here and hit a and so
like everything in the U-V map is well and I'm going to go to use these and export lay out.
Now when you're exporting the U.V. map out of Blendr you need to make a decision as to what size this
U-V map is going to be.
And for my particular purposes I'm going to make this map to K or 2048 by 2048.
It's currently set to 1 K but I feel like there are times when this particular object may pretty much
fill up the screen if the camera is very close to the object so I'm going to go ahead and call this
to say 20 eight.
Now if this happens to be too big and it's slowing down my scene slowing down my game then I can always
go back into Photoshop and save out a smaller version and I'm going to come over to my textures folder
here and I'm going to save it in my textures folder.
But what I'm going to do is create a folder here and on the call it couch and within this folder I'm
going to have all of my own files that I'm going to be using to texture this object.
I'm going to have the U-V map I'm going to have the photoshop file color map maybe normal map.
So all of that is going to be here in one folder.
So I'll call this couch underscore Uvas an export.
Now let's go to photoshop here in Photoshop I'm in a press control or command o to open and I will browse
to that textures folder and my couch folder here and here are my couch UVA's so all like open.
And there they are.
So I don't know if it's hard to see here but if I zoom in really far you can see that there is the movies
from Blender now all press control or command zero to go to full screen there.
And I'm to change this flayer to call it Uvas.
So I know what it is and I'll go ahead and open up that fabric seamless texture as well so control or
command.
Oh and let's go find our texture in our textures folder.
Here it is.
All right.
So now that we have this I'm going to press control or command a and then Control C to copy.
And now going to come over to my couch file and press control or command V to paste.
Now take this layer now and drag it below the U.V. so I can see the U-V map over the texture.
I pressed the key to go to the moved tool and I'll press shift and click and drag and reduce the size
of this somewhat.
So these are the pillows here.
These are the back of the couch.
So what I want to do is try and guess as best as I can how big this should be.
Somebody zoom in here and just see if I can get it to be about the size that I want.
So if this is the back cushion may be the size of the pattern should be about like that.
Let's give that a try.
So I'm going to move this up here and hit enter and now I'm going to press alt and shift and click and
drag that out and put it right up next to the first one now.
I need to turn on snapping so I'm going to go up to the view menu and turn on snap its shift control
command semi-colon.
So I'll turn that on.
So now as I move this it will snap on to the first tile Now I'm going to press the arrow key one time
and move it over just a little bit.
So it ensures that it's sealed up or that there isn't a space between the two tiles.
And I'm going to just press alt shift again and that will duplicate the tile and I'll snap it on and
then move it over one with the left arrow key and I'll do that again kind of all the way over here and
zoom out just a bit with control minus and I'll press the spacebar to use the hand tool to move over
here.
All right so shift Allt again.
Snap move over one with the left arrow key and I'm just going to do this a bit and kind of tile this
all the way over.
Now I can do this the whole way over and that might be the way to go.
Let me go ahead and do that when I can do is select a couple of these so I'll shift select a couple
of the layers here like this and then press alt shift and click and drag and duplicate these over and
move it over one to the left.
And now maybe I'll select all these two here alt shift and duplicate these over.
And there we go.
Now I can select all of these layers here.
And do the same thing going down.
So I'll always shift this and move it down snap it move it up with the up arrow just so we seal it off
a bit and keep on going
and I'll do one more up here at the top.
It looks like I need another one to appear so alt shift and I'll bring this all the way up snap it there
move it down with it with the down key and I'll do one more like that.
Now I'm going to come over here to the layers of window and I'm going to select all of these just like
the top one scroll down shift select that bottom one and then press control or command E and that will
merge everything down into one layer.
All right so I'm going to call this fabric.
So let's test this.
How do we do on this.
I'm going to turn off the U-V layer and I'm going to press shift alt control or command W and that will
open up the export as window here.
Now you can also go up to file export Export as right here.
And now let's just export this out I've got it set as a P N G.
It's 2048 by 2048.
That's good.
I'm just going to click export and I will take it over to that couch folder and I'll change it from
couch to couch underscore see for color map I'll hit export.
And there we go.
So now if I go back to Blendr Let's take a look at it here.
I'm going to switch this texture here with the one we just created so I'll hit the X to delete that
or remove it out of the texture node.
Now click open and I'll come over to my textures folder couch folder and there is my color channel or
my color map click open and there we go.
So now it looks like we've created our texture pattern way too small but we haven't in that over here
under this scale fields in our texture panel.
We still have 12 here so let's take this down to one and see how we did.
Yeah that's pretty good.
So that was a little more work than we did before but now we have more control over it.
So let's say we wanted to put some dirt in stains on this.
We go back to a photo shop here let me open up some grunge maps.
I love grunge maps.
It's just textures of dirt.
So here's one.
I have a grunge map from textures dot com.
Here's another one here's another one.
So it's just maps of dirt and just nastiness.
I like it.
It gives things a nice lived in feel.
So I'm going to go I think with this grungy map so I'm going to select this one and open this in Photoshop
and I'm going to press control or command a and then a controller command C to copy this then I'm going
to come over here and paste it in here.
So I'm going to press control or command V to paste that they're now going to turn on my you U-V map
so we can see them overlaid over the textures.
And now I'm just going to maybe take this I'm going to try and just take this over the whole thing like
this.
Let's see how this works.
I'll change this from the normal blending mode to multiply and that gives it kind of a nasty feel to
it.
Let me turn off to the movies and see how it looks.
Oh yeah.
That looks just awful.
So let's try this press shift alt command W again.
To export and export all.
And over.
Right.
That couch color map and replace and go back to Blendr and see how we did here.
I'm going to remove that hit.
Open.
Go to that couch folder and let's choose that couch color map again.
Oh my.
And it's just nasty.
So you can see now we have more control over our textures.
I wasn't able to overlay that dirt layer by just importing the seamless map directly into a blender
or unity but with this now I can make adjustments I can adjust the opacity of this let's say See I can
take the opacity down a bit.
Maybe that's a little too grungy.
Right.
And I can add more layers more grunge or dirt or textures on this however much I want.
But let me just show you how I would clean this U-V map up clean this color map up before I took it
into unity or before I submitted it to a production pipeline.
If I were working for a studio or was working with a team of developers so what I do is I'd one make
sure that all of these layers have been condensed down to one.
So I'm going to select all of these and press control or command e this other layer or call this dirt.
And now if I turn the movies back on what I can do is select the area outside of the movies and delete
it.
So let me zoom in just a bit here.
I'm going to come over to the magic wand tool here in Photoshop.
Select the U.V. is Lehre and then click anywhere outside the movies and that will select everything
all around the U-V islands.
Now it looks like it didn't get these over here so I'll press shift and click over here as well.
That's like that all of those.
Maybe.
Shift click here and here and here over here.
So I'm just trying to get all of these areas selected.
There we go now I'm going to delete these areas for both of these layers but I want to make sure I don't
infringe on the U-V islands themselves so here's one right here so I'm going to come up to select and
I'm going to choose modify and I'm going to contract maybe by two pixels.
There you go and that contracts the selection a little bit to get the selection away from the edges
of the U-V islands.
Now I'm going to select the dirt layer and press delete now and select the fabric layer and press delete.
And now press control or command d to de-select everything.
Then I'm going to create a new layer right down here at the bottom and I'll select this and make it
black and then I'll use that paint bucket tool and click out here.
So now if I turn off the U-V wires you can see I have a nice U-V map cleaned up a bit and ready for
export.
So I'll press shift alt commander control w and I'll export this out to my couch folder like that and
over write that and replace it good.
Now I want to save this photoshop file as well.
Press control or command s and I'll save this as a SD a photoshop file.
Take the Uvas off of the name and call it just couch PTSD.
So now I have the photoshop file the U-V Islands and the color map all in one folder there.
And click save.
All right.
So now if I come back over to unity and go to my couch fabric material here I can remove this texture
out of the Al bedo I'll just click that little dot and then choose none.
Now that's been removed.
Now bring that new texture in.
Bring at my Finder window.
Here it is.
Couch underscore.
See.
I'll drag that in.
And now I can take that texture drag it into the Al-Bayda.
And once again we still have 12 here in the tiling so I'll take that back down to one.
And there we go.
I can adjust that material a bit so it isn't quite so shiny.
I can use the metallic and the smoothness here to reduce the shyness of it so it looks a little bit
more like a fabric.
And there we go.
Our disgusting couch has been textured.